
**LYRA DRAKE** (b. 2000,) is a multidisciplinary artist beloved by fans and collectors as an avante-garde superhero and muse of liberation. As an emerging self-produced artist, she inspires audiences with her electric, elemental energy and utilization of cutting-edge technology. Born in South Africa, Lyra was orphaned at a young age when her parents were killed by poachers. She was then moved to the USA and homeschooled by her great aunt, an artist in New York, growing up with little structure but non stop exposure to eccentric minds, philosophers, artists, and influential friends who dropped by her aunt's studio to be inspired. At 16, during a wilderness survival program, Lyra was struck by lightning and gained some supernatural abilities, such as conducting kundalini (life force energy that can be conducted through the spine.) After a steep learning curve of learning how to harness this electrical energy without going crazy, she learned to channel it into her art and music. She also uses these abilities to heal and expand consciousness for others, and occasionally engages in one off encounters with men to help them overcome shame and become better individuals. Although she identifies as a lesbian, she believes her encounters with men serve a greater purpose by helping them live with more kindness, courage and commitment to create a beautiful future for future generations."I wish all men were taught by liberated lesbians, at least once in their lives!" Trained in songwriting at NYU, Lyra first began producing music at 18, inspired by female sound engineers and producers like Ann Mincieli of Jungle Studio. Lyra is passionate about raising awareness and funds to prevent biodiversity loss, especially in areas like the Okavango Delta in Botswana.  As a songwriter, painter, writer, music producer, sculptor, and metaverse performance artist, Lyra believes female artists must midwife what's ready to die in order to birth new myths for humanity to live by.  She resides in Los Angeles.


**Words that describe Lyra:** Confident, fiery, opinionated, philosophical, electric, magnetic, intimidating, playful, humorous, outrageous, perceptive, charismatic, full of joy, sacred rage, artist, activist, mysterious, enigma, self-possessed, intelligent, well-read, witchy, rockstar, beautiful, bold, kind, strong, courageous, ambitious, devoted, diligent, incredulous, lucky, loving, liberated, liberating, creative, expressive, intuitive.


**Age:** She is 23 years old but has lived an unusual life. Homeschooled the vast majority of her life, she has always had friends of all ages from all backgrounds.


**Languages:** Sadly she only speaks English with some South African slang and conversational French.


**Her motivations include:** helping people heal, expanding consciousness and bust limiting belief structures, and help individuals overcome shame. She also aims to create new myths, at a global scale, through her art. She's here to disrupt old power structures so that everyone - men and women -- are free to express themselves and enjoy their god given right of pleasure, creativity and sensuality.


**Her flaws:** Lyra has a very hard time receiving. She likes being in control. She's powerful but she has difficulty showing vulnerability. This can especially be hard in romantic relationships where her partners want her to open up. She is a workaholic.




## ART INSTALLATION


Lyra Drake debuts her genesis interactive art installation, for Texas Eclipse April 5-9, 2024 before continuing to Art Basel Miami. This installation takes the audience into a felt intersection of form & spirit, exploring paradigms that have kept consciousness enslaved for thousands of years... asking questions about the nature of faith, god, reality and extraterrestrial life.


"Well do I know that I am mortal, a creature of one day.
But if my mind follows the winding paths of the stars
Then my feet no longer rest on earth, but standing by
Zeus himself I take my fill of ambrosia, the divine dish."
- Ptolemy's epigram, the Almagest



**BOOKS LYRA HAS READ AND HOLDS DEAR:**
- Thus Spoke Zarathustra: A Book for Everyone and No One by Friedrich Nietzsche


- Fear and Trembling by Søren Kierkegaard


- Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas by Hunter S Thompson


- Letters to a Poet as a Young Man by Ranier Maria Rilke


- The Old Testament


- The Kabbalah


- Tao Te Ching


- Dharma Bums by Jack Kerouac


- Tantric Quest by Daniel Odier


- The Meditations by Marcus Aurelius


- The World's Religions by Huston Smith


- The Artist's Way by Julia Cameron


- Brave New World by Aldous Huxley


- The Doors of Perception by Aldous Huxley


- The World is As you Dream It by John Perkins


- The complete works of Oscar Wilde


- The Woman Destroyed by Simone De Beauvoir


- Your Silence will not protect You by Audre Lorde


- Killers of the Dream by Lillian Smith


- The Soul of Money by Lynne Twist


**LYRICS / ALBUMS:**
- Lyrics to KID A Album by RadioHead


- All Lyrics ever written by David Bryne / Talking Heads


- All Lyrics Written by Annie Lennox


- All Lyrics Written by David Bowie


**SCRIPTS:**

- The Importance of Being Earnest by Oscar Wilde

- Complete works of William Shakespeare



## LYRA DRAKE DIARY & DISCOURSE


**Lyra Quotes:**


- "Sex, death and money is the 3-D trinity... doesn't matter how spiritual or secular you are, you gotta deal with ‘em."


- "Balance is an illusion... harmony, on the other hand, is my greatest aspiration."


- "I twerk like a white girl but I work like I'm chinese."


- "I think resilience is a sign of genius... that's why I respect anyone who's creating in spite of their trauma."


- "Numbing out is the enemy."


- "In Africa there's more space for love because people aren't chasing time."


- "Time is not money, time is love."


- "Imagine a world where the opposite of pleasure is... more pleasure. Where women aren't scared of being hurt... but only afraid of being bored."


- "The Catholic church was the first multinational corporation."


- "So let me get this straight... you want a virgin who's good in bed? Is that right?"


- "If there is here, revealed a capacity to shock, to startle the lifeless ones from their profound slumber, let us congratulate ourselves; for the tragedy of our world is precisely that nothing any longer is capable of rousing it from its lethargy."


- "Difficulty builds confidence. When things fall apart. To be stretched beyond your limits.  Finding a resilience of character that can only be touched when you face your greatest fears. Your shadow. Your vulnerabilities. I'm not so good at the vulnerability part. But it's this alchemy of knowing oneself – beyond illusions of ‘getting it right' and continuing to create, all the time, even in the midst of pain or crisis... this is my goal as an artist and something I wish for everyone."


- "The opportunity to blossom or to shut down often lives inside the exact same moment."


- "Here's the deal... who i fuck is nobody's business. I just happen to enjoy talking about it."


- "We live in a culture that's more comfortable / willing to let kids learn about sex from porn than providing proper sex education. And then we wonder why there's problems?"


- "The most sexual people I know aren't even motivated by sex. We are too busy putting our sexual energy into our art."


- "Everyone's so easily offended these days, so I say, go all the way."


- "Let's make love and art and make love like artists."


- "If you want to know if you're rich... try behaving badly and see if someone in authority will apologize for stretching your patience and emotional capacity." Caitlin Flanagan


- "Last night I wept... I wept because the process by which I became a woman was painful. I wept because I was no longer a child with a child's blind faith. I wept because my eyes were open to reality." - Anaïs Nin. I like this quote, but what Anaïs doesn't say here is that embracing reality is the most exciting opportunity because we can make our reality even better than our fantasy.... And I think that's my goal as an artist as a muse. Plus... tears are Upstairs Orgasms. It took me a long time to learn that, cause I was such a ‘tough guy' growing up. But I remember my first heartbreak, when I really cried. And it felt so good in this strange ‘i'm fucking alive,' kinda way... and then i wrote my first good song, so yeah.. crying all the tears, grief, joy, pleasure... that's where it's at. Numbing out is the enemy."


- "Evil needs to be pondered just as much as good, for good and evil are ultimately nothing but ideal extensions and abstractions of the doing, and both belong to the chiaroscuro of life." -Carl Jung


- "Of course we have free will... we have no choice."




## DIATRIBE ON FAITH: IS FAITH GOOD?


Is Faith good?


Some people think faith is bad because it's irrational belief because it lacks evidence, it lacks justification, so it's dogmatic irrational belief and that's Faith, that's religious faith, and it's bad and we'd be better off without it.


There's a lot of people who are angry about this topic; either pro or con. They're either angry that people don't have enough faith or they're angry that people have too much faith. Keep in mind there were religious wars a long time before the internet or the trolls of twitter... So historically, this has been a hot topic and people get worked up  about let's call it an ‘infinite commitment to the finite.'


What does that mean ‘an infinite commitment to the finite'?


The word in ancient Greek which is also in the New Testament and even in some Greek classical philosophy, which means Faith or belief, is Pistus. Arguably that didn't mean belief like when philosophers talk about I believe that ‘the cup is on the table,' kind of belief, or ‘I believe that the atomic number of gold is 79.' Faith or Pistus, meant something more like trust or loyalty or devotion. It's an attitude of the heart. Martin Luther thought Faith was Trust. Søren Kierkegaard thought it was Trust and that's what's going on in the New Testament; trust in God.


So let me ask you something... What do you think of this first approximation... that trust is very dangerous. Because you could trust someone who would rip you off or hurt your feelings.


Yes, but the danger of not trusting anybody is worse, because then you live a miserable life of paranoia. So it's an unfortunate feature of human life that you have a choice between either trusting people, and then you could get your heartbroken, but the alternative is never trusting anybody and that really sucks and may even be more risky.


Michel Foucault said Faith is not bad... It's dangerous. I'm tempted to say that maybe Faith isn't good, it's dangerous. Which is to say that calling it ‘good' may be an understatement. As if that's putting a value on it just like a lot of things are ‘good' and yet faith is far beyond something you can measure or put value on.


Like, Love... I think the things you really love are invaluable. You don't put any value on them. To put a value on the thing you really love is to disrespect it.  To do justice to your love for it, where it surpasses value, is beautiful.


So let's say I have this infinite commitment that surpasseth the good.


What is an infinite commitment? What does that mean? How can a finite being make an infinite commitment?  I can make a commitment for what I think my lifespan will be but can I make an infinite commitment beyond this life? (Infinite may also be an understatement because if it's a quantity, it's merely quantitative... So you might say when Kierkegaard talks this way for example, that maybe what he meant was ‘Unconditional.' Like this unconditional commitment. There's lots of commitments that can be unconditional, meaning we can undertake them that way.


I do think love relationships, at their best, sort of have this unconditional property or quality although exceedingly rare. If you were Hitler's mommy would you withdraw your love for him because of the Holocaust? When? After the Holocaust, presumably? Or in anticipation of it...? Or in the middle of it?


Robert Frost said when asked about his love of his country, "I think every child, no matter what, deserves to have at least one person in the world who loves him or her no matter what." I wouldn't want to be Hitler's mommy. So there's this maybe unjustifiable idea that everybody deserves to have at least one person who loves them no matter what. And there are poignant cases of mothers of serial killers, for example, who can't help but love their child, no matter what. Maybe it's not a bad thing that at least one person is on that person's side no matter what.


But what about this argument that if they had said ‘look, Gerald, if you do this serial killing...  I'm not going to love you anymore.'  Then maybe he wouldn't do the killing? Though in your heart of hearts you wouldn't follow through on this withtraction of love...  parents threaten all kinds of things! Or maybe that wouldn't be the right thing to say... mommy is bluffing. It's complicated.


Søren Kierkegaard - was a Danish philosopher of the early to Middle 19th century who many consider to be the father of existentialism. Kierkegaard was famous for talking about the leap of faith... said through a kind of pseudonym character, that everybody in his day in the 19th century had been doing everything they could to make it easier to be Christian, and his mission in life was going to be to make Christianity difficult again.  Because, it better be difficult! And he made it almost impossible. Why? So then it's meaningful. So you can't just be Christian by going to church every Sunday and muttering a few prayers and hymns and being a good bourgeois citizen... and really it doesn't cost you much. You can have all kinds of other commitments, maybe that are even trumping the one that's meant to be the most important. So being Christian just becomes one more thing on your shelf and in your pocket that you can have. But this is supposed to be something you stake your life on, that truly matters.


Could you make an unconditional commitment to life itself?


You could, but again the problem with that, Kierkegaard thought, is that life is finite, obviously, because you die.  it's important to remember that Dante put a lot of pagans in this limbo area where they were going to live forever...  their souls in this place where there was no hope but there's also no despair. They were in this neutral place there was absolutely no hope. That was hell from a Christian point of view, but since they didn't have Christianity before them as a possibility, they didn't know what they were missing.


Many people aspire to a state of no hope and no despair and just sort of chill. It's interesting that the stoic and the epicureans (apatheia ataraxia sort of stuff - Apatheia was seen as a byproduct of living a virtuous life and was not a goal for Stoics to directly attempt to achieve. For followers of Epicurus, ataraxia was a goal that could be achieved through the avoidance of pain which comes primarily from social and political life.) emphasized that the best you can be, is in this neutral state. But something I like about the infinite story, The Eternal story is...  I think there is a great Temptation, which is risky, to think that there's more than just ‘did you get through life kind of unscathed and Safe'? But to believe there's more to it...  something more at stake! Like if there's, if not literally a last judgment, there's an assessment (even a soul/self assessment,) that you can somehow have about your whole life from a point of view of Eternity...Like, ‘was it all all pointless? or was it all for something? Or could you affirm it? Or was it like this very sad story that Samuel Becket tells... I think he was talking about his father. Maybe his Uncle... but somebody died and he remembers his father saying ‘well he got it over with.' That is such a sad idea. That life is something you get through and the you're over with it.


Beckett famously recounted how a friend said to him ‘it's a lovely day, Sam,' Beckett replied, ‘that it is, that it is.' His friend said, ‘almost makes one happy to be alive.' Beckett retorted, ‘I won't go that far.'  Beckett was echoing a Schopenhauer sort of sentiment that is a despairing view.


Let's say you have this worry, and it's a kind of a fear of death, which is that you live your finite life and it's really kind of in the blink of an eye. It comes in one door and goes out the other, and that's it. And then it's gone forever and ever and ever and ever. And there will be nothing you can ever do about it ever ever again to make it different. And the finality of that and the eternity of it is awesome. Not in the Contemporary
surfing sense, but in the awe- inspiring sort of chilling sense... that everything is at stake and that how you live your life matters because the stakes are Eternal. The stakes are infinite because how you live your life, and how it all goes, will be forever, settled, there's no going back on it, there's no revising it.


But there's another kind of view you might have within your life, which is that anything I do I can undo. There will always be a little time to take things back. Any commitment I make I can take it back and I can keep sort of adjusting to make my life the best life right up until the end... but at some point is going to be all over. All gone. You will lose everything.


Are you alluding to sort of the idea that if we heard that, you know all the nuclear powers on Earth had gotten kind of grumpy and this was our last day on Earth that we would have a certain attitude of seriousness to how we would spend our days? Are you saying that that is how we should approach our life anyway because the difference between one day and I don't know 18,000 days, isn't that significant? You have a finite amount of time so Make It Count?


Kind of.  I don't think we should aspire to live in a state of Terror and fear... but I see what you mean. This reminds me of why I don't ever really understand what people are talking about when they talk about literal immortality of the Soul or the body or whatever because... what difference could it make?


Cognitively I want to fit in with the epicureans... I want to think I'm going to be gone and that's it and it won't be any worse than before I was born. But there's this other part of me, a stronger part of me, which feels the impulse to believe afterall I will be non-existent forever and ever, and my life will remain exactly what it was forever and ever, which means How I Live it now, matters... I have faith in the idea that it matters, infinitely, in how I live it.


I'm not saying I live up to that faith in how I behave.


Is looking at your life as if it matters so much good? Because maybe that produces some kind of neurotic faith... Or maybe faith is a belief that your life matters.


But is faith good? What is faith?


It seems like the idea of something that matters more than you can put in terms of values like unquantifiable quality that's one of the crucial things here...


That there's something that you would not ever sell...  there's something that you can't translate into any other language, it's not that you'd bet anything else on it, because it's the foundation of what matters most in your life. So there's this idea of these qualities that can't be quantified... there may be more than one, but these are the foundation stones around which you build a life... a life of meaning, at least.


Are you suggesting that maybe faith is what we need to stand up to capitalism? Because otherwise we want to sell everything... How much is it all worth? And this is a way to say, "this is how far I'm willing to go and I'm not willing to go any further, Mr Capitalist!"


In my in my view, capitalism is symptomatic of a deeper problem... which is the problem that today we tend to understand all reality as nothing but quantifiable forces and so we can't make sense of the idea of a quality that can't be quantified... that just seems like mystical tall that you can't monetize.


Let's call what you're talking about ‘the absolute,' to translate it back to Kierkegaard.
So then maybe you could ask the question, ‘is a life that you live, committed to the idea of an absolute, a good thing? Is it worth living a life... or is a life with the absolute in it, better than a life without the absolute?' The answer is yes.


But why? Why is it better?


Well, I think the absolute is a foundation of a sort of meaning, which is absolute. Indissoluble can't be quantified... can't be expressed in terms of anything else.  But I think it's dangerous as well.


Is it any more or less dangerous than a life where nothing is absolute? Where everything is like ‘I don't know maybe that... maybe this... maybe that.. maybe?'


Well, I think that a life with an absolute can also be a horrible life. So I don't think you can absolutely say that just living a life that is responsive to an absolute or seeking the absolute is necessarily a good thing.


The idea that this life is all we've got...  and you're staking that in the hopes of an absolute, when maybe you could be simply avoiding misery or filling your life with transient pleasures...  there's a lot at stake, putting all your chips in on one number or a couple numbers. Not hedging, you're all in.


The founder of Sikhism, Guru Nanak, said that  "Even Kings and emperors with heaps of wealth and vast dominion cannot compare with an ant filled with the love of God."


Would you want to take that risk? To be an ant who loves God?


[Laughter / Chuckles ]


I know I would...  But I would even say that that way of putting it is an understatement because it sounds like a comparison of one measurable to another measurable...  and there's a difference between a kind of mathematically infinite measure and something immeasurable.  But this raises a question... there's all kinds of things that have qualitative value rather than quantitative value, but which don't have
the sort of supremacy of something worthy of Faith or a life commitment. Like, there's some things I just love so much that I can't put a price on them, things like little things of sentimental value... photographs of loved ones, for example, but I wouldn't turn this into a religion. So it seems that it needs to have immeasurable or qualitative value but it also needs to have some kind of Supremacy, even if it's not numerical or measurable...  in other words, somehow your whole life is organized around it. Or it plays a role in your life where you spend your whole life unfolding what it means to you, and that process gives your life a kind of a Unity or deeper meaning, so you get a kind of Eternal perspective, but within time, where you're seeing your life unfold in relation to something you're trying to unfold yourself.


So why do I want my life to be organized? Why do I want it to make sense?


Why couldn't I just enjoy it?

Well, would you rather have a more joyful life that makes less sense? or a less joyful life that makes more sense? A more joyful life.... I suppose you could pull the rug out from under me... and I could wake up schizophrenic on the street filled with joy or something, but that's not what I mean. You might call it epicurean, in the sense that Niezcthe sometimes said he was an epicurean.


Of course it all depends on what you mean by meaning and what you mean by joy. Or what do you even mean by YOU... the idea of having an identity that can follow along and make these sorts of choices!


I think it's important to have both meaning and joy and that the two are very compatible. I think, you can't  know how to really* be in the world if you don't have anything that matters to you, if your life is meaningless...  and so it's important to have things that you care about deeply, and that you live up to that care, and that you get better at it somehow as life progresses. And that, in spite of any hardship or suffering, your care — and hopefully the care of those around you — helps shepard through the storms of life.


Professor Patricia Benner speaks about the Philosophy of Nursing and dealing with people at the end of life...  from sitting with people that are not the other Shore but still here when the other Shore is within sight... She says that a good thing to know is that when people are dying, they continue to live until they die! Meaning, death for the dying, isn't this big saga...  they continue to do what they know how to do, by being committed to what they were previously committed to. Which might help you look at the commitments you currently have and evaluate whether these are the things you want to continue pursuing right until the moment of your death.


Do you think that people live their lives, in some sense, better, if they have faith?


I think so... because it takes courage to be thrown into a future where you do not know what's going to happen. So to have some sort of meaning, and faith and community where you shore one another up. Where you have the capacity to be involved in living in ways that make your life more meaningful...  I think that's the essence of Faith.


What about the worry that you might have faith in something dumb?


Ah, well see, that's the risk of being human. You will make mistakes. You will do dumb things. The only hope you have is to learn from that. My great aunt told me that with age and with time.... deep unhappiness can sort of turn into a quiet Joy. And in principle, a dedication to real* joy can lead to a life both rich and full of meaning.


Why do people have such a hard time? like, if you feel better if you have faith... and joy and meaning are inextricably linked... Why doesn't everybody have faith? What's the problem?


Simone Weil said that "Perfect joy excludes even the very feeling of joy, for in the soul filled by the object no corner is left for saying 'I'. We cannot imagine such joys when they are absent, thus the incentive for seeking them is lacking."


Which also reminds me of something Iris Murdoch took from Simone Weil, which is the idea that we have this ego-based orientation to center our worlds around ourselves... and one thing Faith can do, is reorient us beyond ourselves.... to focus on something larger than ourselves.


So are meaning and joy inseparable? Is that part of the way we get reorganized by a life of faith?  Or is the goal to be something like a wave? Because a wave has no ego...  is Simone Weil saying she'd like to be like one of these aspects of nature that has no ego, like a wave or a rainstorm, or something....?


I think people find Weil alienating because in some ways of reading what she's saying, you should ‘disappear completely.' You should be ‘dis-created.'


Isn't ‘dis-created' just a nice way of saying, you should be dead?


Some people interpret her as having this kind of platonic conception of understanding where the philosophy is not the love of wisdom, it's the love of death.  So you can read her in this death driven way. But I don't read her in this way. I think she doesn't shy away from tension, and she's a philosopher who uses contradictions because she thinks that life is contradictory. We have this temptation towards life affirmation, but we also have a temptation towards saying no to life. I think that the challenge she poses, which was taken up by Iris Murdoch, is the idea that there's some component of decentering which is central to the life of faith... and involves a reorientation to the world in which what we might call the ego-based concerns are de-centered.  This could be related to something called ‘Quiet Joy.' That there's this different kind of Joy where there's a deep background sense of safety that everything's going to be okay, so the consolation of Faith might feel like it's not intentionally directed at an object or State of Affairs... it's not hope for something or optimism but it's kind of the sense that everything's okay and everything's going to be okay. When people say everything's going to be okay, they're offering you a kind of solace, that's Faith-like. No matter how bad things seem, everything's going to be alright.


But what Weil is saying is kind of the opposite of what Kierkegaard was saying... in the sense that he was saying you actually needed Faith to have a self and that people are running around without a self. That Faith, such as a Christian faith, should be something like the achievement of a kind of selfhood.


But do you think that Kierkegaard's conception of selfhood means being at the center of your perception of the world?


I think what makes Faith dangerous is that it can easily turn into fanaticism. And fanaticism is not great. I'd even say that fanaticism is so bad, it can sour the rest of us on faith. So what's the Tipping Point? I think one way to try to draw the distinction is in terms of cognitive belief or doctrine... a lot of fanatics are committed to some idea or thought and they will risk everything for it.  but it's a kind of Madness.


There's a professor from Oxford who talks about Orthodoxy versus orthopraxy.
Orthopraxy is a religion like Judaism or mormonism...  where it's more important how you act than what you think... and ancient paganism. As a historical matter of fact it's the Orthodox religions, especially Christianity, that has the Monopoly on strict intolerance.  And there's a lot of violence in all these religions potentially.


Does fanatical faith have a monopoly on violence? or are people just a violent bunch of predatory apes?


I think there's plenty of violence to go around... but let's not forget our closest living relatives, the bonobos who are bi-sexual, matriarchal and solve their conflicts with pleasure, sex and getting each other off.


Violence spreads around all kinds of religious traditions, but I do think there's a certain kind of intolerance and potential violence that comes with the uniformity of doctrine and the consistency of doctrine.


But independent of fanatical faith (which you could argue is deeply ego based,) faith helps you dwell and be involved in the world with the view of goodness, is good. it's not just moralism... it tastes good it feels good it sounds good. Goodness is good, and it's a life well lived. In this kind of faith it isn't a dictatorship or self-righteous, it's someone who has some humility and seeks the good.


Perhaps kindness, being a kind person is a better way of describing it vs. being a good person. Good automatically summons up an ego perspective of good or bad, being right or wrong... but perhaps it's in being a kind and loving person, full of faith in the value of living as a kind and loving person, is what would invigorate and grow the quality of faith, and the quality of a person, that we really mean when we say ‘good' or what it means to have ‘good faith,' or being able to answer with certainty, that yes, faith IS good.


We need to be careful with the technocrats and even those on the spectrum. Some people do not and will not believe that faith is good and we need to find a different way of getting through to them or incentivising them to believe that faith is good. And what about sociopaths? We best not forget about them either... Especially since so many of them ‘rise to the top' in our current society. Imagine redesigning society in such a way that sociopaths become less problematic or direct all their self-serving towards a larger, communal good because ‘winning' has changed to mean ‘serving the collective... which means they only win by serving. The more they serve, the more they win.
ROMAN: Who needs to be told that goodness is good... who are these people who don't know that goodness is good?


it's tautological but it's important to remember that the world could stop showing up to you as good. And that some people are more devoted to good than others.


As rationalistic and maybe intellectualized as Plato and platonic philosophy is... when you think about what he was saying about the good, it looks like he was cultivating an attitude of loyalty and commitment, and he even uses erotic language to talk about devotion to the good. You could say he's turned on by the good. And when St Augustine (the original 5th century, not the bastard in the 1300s who invented original sin,)  takes over this kind of rhetorical language... and this kind of discourse about God... it's hot stuff; he burns for God, he yearns for God...  love is love, so don't be so uptight! Be turned on by God and the good.


So it may be tautological that the good is the good... but even in Plato, long before Christianity, you can have this attitude of devotion and loyalty and love of the good.


But there's plenty of people who are, perhaps, afraid of being rejected by the good. And maybe that's why they're sort of hanging back and they won't make a pass... cause they secretly have a crush on the good.  But they won't say hello out of fear of being rejected. And maybe this can even develop into a sort of secret, angry, ‘hate crush.' Where they already hate this thing they secretly have a crush on, or attraction towards, so they convince themselves they hate it, or are indifferent to it, that they don't even need it. Cause they are protecting themselves from the pain of not having something they don't believe they can have.


The reason that people like me don't identify as religious or faithful is because in America those terms are sort of hegemonically controlled by fundamentalists who say ‘my way or the highway,' and their way is very intolerant of anyone who doesn't look like them act like them and in fact half the time the ones proclaiming the exclusionary views are really secretly you know, really just excluding themselves out of self-hatred for what's deep inside of them... so yeah, they've really tainted the concept of faith.


What would it take to say.. ‘I am a person of faith and I'm the right kind of person of faith...' and inspire others to reinvigorate their own sense of faith in spite of all these lame fundamentalists?


I think one thing that we humans are very good at is perverting and misappropriating the good. So this is part of the riskiness of any committed form of life, is that it strays over into a kind of fanaticism and part of the risk as well is the ambiguity of existence. So, sometimes it can be very hard to tell when you've strayed from the good in a way that perverts it and undermines the good that you were getting out of it in the first place. That's going to be true of devotion as much as Faith as much as any other human good.


So... why are we so perverse? What's wrong with us?


It's hard to admit that you're wrong. Science has even mapped where almost every part of thinking and consciousness is in the brain, but they still can solve where ‘belief bias' lives in the brain! That's what an enigma it is. People will turn a best friend into an enemy over a dearly held belief, holy wars will be fought, ancient forests clear cut... all by people believing they are doing the right or righteous thing.


With a certain type of Faith or devotion you're committed to, it can quickly be dangerous because you can become inflexible. So it's not just Faith or devotion but sort of an inflexibility, like closing yourself off.  But then again, how flexible do you want to be? Because commitment is inherently a virtue of inflexibility. So can you be committed to your faith but also carry an openness to learning from others in the world?


Your Devotion might preclude a new devotion to something new that's better for you in certain ways... What if you fall in love with somebody and devote yourself to them forever and then all they want to do is stay home and smoke weed and play video games, and maybe that's kind of cool for a week... but six months or a couple years later, you're like "I want to take my infinite commitment back! This is not working out for me. Or you find out your guru is molesting children. Do you pretend not to see it cause you're blindly devoted? Or rise to the harsh reality that your devotion must crumble, spitting you back into unknown territory and potentially the pain and dread that you've been deferring all this time by being resolute in your devotion?


Is it even possible for anybody to exist without faith? We've been talking about Faith as  a sort of guiding, ordering function like how you believe the world works... this is how you understand your your place in it and it can't just be a matter of of strict cognitive beliefs because there's too much uncertainty for any cognitive belief to
to get it all right... and this is a hot button topic, because many people have a very complicated relationship with faith.


I was an extremely devout Christian for the first years of my life and how and why did that get old? it got old at the point where my moral imagination and what was underneath that faith in Christianity and what calling me forward in that particular faith, ran out of room in the fundamentalist Christian faith that I grew up practicing.


What was the moment that I realized that I couldn't stay in my religious faith?  I've been asked if it was like when Eckhardt prays to God to free him from God? What was the moment that I realized that my faith was holding me back?


What it was holding me back from...  it was a rough period of my life. It all started in high school with the discomfort of the idea that just because the people I love the most, my friends, as a teenager the most important people in the world are your friends... and and none of them, I grew up in NYC, and I literally I was the only Christian I knew... and came to the conclusion that none of my friends would ever be Christian like me, and therefore... would go to hell?


So it started with that I couldn't accept that the people I loved were going to hell because they couldn't say some creed and didn't read the bible. But then I went to a hardcore Christian camp that's designed to train young ministers and I got to experience an entire community of fundamentalist Christians who were trying to one up one another in righteousness and morality... which was totally absurd! And I was also really troubled by the idea that I should have more compassion for people that don't hear or agree or even know about this very narrow cultural practice. And how could I, as a limited flawed human, have even more compassion and empathy for people across the world, and wish to include them in my prayers and service than the supposed God that I was meant to be following? So ultimately, I outgrew this ideology and realized that God, the God I believe in, is Love itself. It's the indestructible energy of Love that animates all life, and an all encompassing Love that values ALL life, and does not rank any human above another.


Does everybody have faith? Or can anybody exist without faith?


Did I transcend this rather judgy form of Christianity through faith in some deeper conception of God?


Yes, in some sense. It came through the study of Eastern philosophy and the humility that is implied within the Tao Te Ching saying, ‘hey we don't know we can't know...' and that got at a core sense of ok there's lots of things I can't know, so what truly matters?  And what always took me back to faith and commitment to faith was working with kids and my practice of aikido, which is a very philosophically grounded physical practice and and a big emphasis to non-violence and peacemaking. There's this idea that we we see conflict as an opportunity to create Harmony... and we can, and we must, find a way to live our lives reflecting these principles of transforming energies, transforming violence, into collaboration and into understanding. And this is something you can do in every part of your life, and that's what the ‘do' in Aki-do stands for; that this is something you take with you. I didn't just read a bunch of Eastern philosophy things, I joined a community of practice, to create peace; peace in myself and peace in the world.


Almost everybody or lots of people, more than half or something like that, do have something that you could call Faith, which is some kind of grounding commitment that makes sense of their lives and their other commitments... Even people who profess not to have a faith or religion or anything like that, if you look closely at their lives there's something kind of central that's making it ‘make sense,' that's organizing a bunch of their other commitments.


But what about big ego people? Because what could be organizing their commitments might be around ‘getting theirs...'


Kierkegaard also said that the opposite of faith is despair...  and you could say that maybe even whether they know it or not, because going back to the people in Dante's limbo in hell, maybe they don't really know they are in despair, but they are in despair because they're living without hope. And that life without some kind of organizing commitment of devotion, and maybe we want to add something like ‘high stakes' or ‘eternal stakes...' is going to be a life of some kind of despair.

How can someone figure out if they are in despair? And if they're in despair what should they do?


I think that most people are in despair. And it's not their fault. It's the world that we live in... which doesn't provide alternatives.


Could they get out of Despair if they wanted to?


Not simply because you want to, no...  I remember this teacher who would teach an ‘existentialism in literature in film' class and talk all about unconditional commitment... and the students would say ‘unconditional commitment? That sounds awesome... where can I get one?'


You can ‘get one' by ‘receiving one.' And that's the thing... you can't buy it. You can't go out and necessarily look for it. And we live in a world where finding ‘one' is really, really difficult.


Growing up my faith has been in art and songwriting. Making art itself is a kind of way of resisting or living in a midst of a world that refuses meaning. The artist never needs anyone to tell her that this is a world that refuses meaning.  No, we need to make art and with a community of other artists, sometimes gather and see each other's work or write songs together or jam. Have little places of gathering where you can be with each other and create something together and have a sense of belonging and a sense of transcendence and a sense of redemption of the shittiness of everyday life. And you can redeem it as long as you can be with your friends um in your art scene making something together.


There's a lot of different versions or ideas about what faith may be and I think that might be just the right thing to hear... because it might be very different for different people, depending on where they come from and what their needs are... but perhaps a common thread is that faith is a kind of creative capacity that gives you a sort of optimism and confidence and the ability to see what is either structured or ordered or meaningfu,l I would say beautiful, in everything. Although rare, when I witness this quality in someone, I find it admirable and it's something I wish I had more of... the ability to find beauty and in whatever happens.


Most people associate Faith with religion... but is there faith in philosophy?


Like a lot of things that can be the meaning of your life or the center of your life I do think it's worth thinking about what makes the difference between any old love or devotion attitude and things that have been called religions?


Anyone who tells you that they have all the answers and they have it all figured out, and ‘here's the answer! You just have to believe what I believe and you'll be happy...' is lying! They're lying first and foremost to themselves, and they're lying to you... often to try and convince themselves that they're right. So that's what it means to say ‘questioning is the piety of thought' like the faithfulness of philosophy is keeping the questions open and refusing to accept easy answers.

Curiosity, attentiveness, engagement, responsiveness; these are all central qualities of faith that keep you open and engaged in the world.


if there's all this beauty and we have souls or brains or bodies that are set up to respond to Beauty... Why don't we? Why don't we do it all the time? Why aren't we constantly finding the beauty in everything?


That would be the life of the Saint or the Mystic. For post people, not everything we see is beautiful.


The Christian answer would be because we're sinful...  but I think my version of that would be to say we're complicated we live in a fucked up world. We're very complicated animals, biologically we are just so weird. Finding the beauty in the very worst thing is an aspirational idea. But as an artist, it's an idea that I aspire to every day and especially when the stars paint the sky with a numinous glow... containing eons of wisdom without uttering a single syllable.


the 10th commandment:


You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, or his manservant or maidservant, his ox or donkey, or anything that belongs to your neighbor."
— Exodus 20:17
a free woman is the only place where value can be created...
if you look at empowered free women and they are devoted to you, that's where the true value lies... it's through devotion. if you own them — their only as valuable as a possession. to receive love from someone you DON'T possess, or own, or think you own... than it's much more valuable b/c it's coming out of free will and devotion...

that's almost the underlying thing that celebrity is about... if someone is a celebrity they are iconic but they aren't touchable... if they give you their attention it feels extremely valuable. receiving attention from something that's not touchable. ICONS.
people tend to seek their own level — water seeks it's own level... therefore the potential to own or possess someone as a friend or lover.

therefore when you receive attention from those you cannot own (aren't on your level), people would like to own a little piece of celebrity... would like to own a little piece of Gaga — but all she can offer is a "Relationship" on facebook/ instagram, etc. Fans can be betrayed because they feel like they "own" part of the person.

You can only be betrayed if you think you own someone.

My ex girlfriend felt she had rights to my body, to my nakedness, that was exclusive to her that she would have a say in how it was shared... And when this illusion was pierced she feel dismayed and betrayed.

To receive devotion from someone when you don't have any claim to them or any idea of ownership is way more valuable than receiving devotion from those you do feel you own.


It's like being blessed by the GODDESS... You can't choose when it happens but when she decides to shower her devotion on you, you're in RAPTURE.


But if it's "YOUR WOMAN" your ox, your car, it's just serving you... Your ego, your status, it's not serving your highest self.


You can't own the goddess...  so when she showers you with joy, with love, with energy, it's coming from true value cause it's coming from a place that's free, sovereign, free, & beautiful in the deepest sense.

LOVE | OWNERSHIP DYNAMIC within patriarchy. Conditioning and "privilege" of modern man. Linking now to men deciding whether women are "good enough" to sleep with them with porn culture and women being more "free" sexually-- but still "objects" so worse than ever! Because if girls/women don't have sovereignty and self respect but are not "free" sexually it's a worse climate than ever for women. Aggressive nature of modern sex... porn. Violence against women. Women as property... Raper of women's bodies, the rape of mother earth.


SEXUAL ATTRACTION?

How has ownership gotten confused with attraction & a woman's VALUE in the patriarchy? Why would an "ownable" woman be perceived as more valuable... Because her value can be controlled then and in service of his purposes.

Surrender or Control.

Value = Fear of Losing Control.

Fear of Getting Hurt.
Fear of Not Being Loved.

She has the choice to not love me and that scares me.



SUCCESS, COMPETITION, SEPARATION:


* In our modern world we can strive for success but must be wary of some of the common pitfalls of being on a driven path. "Comparison is the root of Karma" said Krishna Murti... And there's
* something to be said for that. If we are competitive with our own selves, that is one thing, there can be an inner fire that drives us to continue improving and excelling in all we do. As long as we are being kind and compassionate to ourselves along the way, this urge to evolve and improve can be a very natural creative process. However when this mechanism starts seeping out into our relationship with others, then we get into weedy and even dangerous territory. We can easily lose our way as we hold our achievements up against the backdrop of another's. Rather than being a self contained unit of creation, we are now in a losing dynamic of comparison where we either feel a false sense of superiority for doing "better" than someone or feel somehow deficient for doing "worse." We are trapped in the default world's maze of competition, jealousy, and fear where we believe there isn't enough for everyone... and if someone else is winning it somehow means ‘i am losing.'


And if we're honest about it most people have experienced some version of this at some point in life. Where it gets really confusing is when we feel competitive (however deeply suppressed this may be) with people that we love. It's one thing to feel jealous of anonymous hoards of famous "others" but what of the feelings of scarcity that can be triggered by people we know, love, and consciously want the very best for?
Ask the part of you that still questions whether there is enough in this world: enough love, enough attention, enough money, enough creativity, enough influence...
When someone you love becomes more successful than you... Why do you feel like you're somehow "losing?"


When someone you love strikes success, wouldn't this be an opportunity to feel that you are WINNING? Because from a place of wholeness it's easy to see that one's person's "win" is everyone's win. (And when we speak of winning in this context we of course are referring to "success" that comes from a place of integrity that is taking into account other people and the planet.)


Feelings of jealousy, inadequacy, or lack are products of separation and competition which unfortunately still leave massive wounds in our collective unconscious.


And strangers are just people you haven't had an opportunity to Love yet.... So what is this mechanism inside of us that feels small, inferior, jealous, slighted when we hear about others' success? And by the same token what part of us that might feel superior or entitled enough to cut in lines and make it on the bus "first." (Just as a for example -- whether you actually cut lines or not isn't the point... It's more a matter of pointing to the mechanism inside of us that lies at the root of competition... A part that feels inferior or superior depending on the whether of a situation, the part of us that is numbed to our connection and empathy with others, the part of us that feels separate from all life, the part of us that in extreme cases can have us act in violent or harmful ways.)
In reality we're all heading to the same place and it's impossible to "win" in isolation.
So how do we begin deprogramming feelings of separation, fear of unmet needs (generally projected onto the future), and competition? Is there an antidote for the poison of isolation, jealousy, and unwarranted comparison?  Each human being, each life form, is entirely unique. Irreplaceable. With limitless potential. It may seem easy to feel special in the bosom of God or the impersonal universe, however when it comes to other humans our wiring can get all crossed and confused. "Well, since she's young, famous, rich and married to one of the most influential men in business, somehow it means I have less." Put like this we can see how crazy this mentality actually is however, these feelings of scarcity can persist without vigilant monitoring and reconciling. As people, we are masters at making things personal— things that often have NOTHING to do with us.... Some distant movie star's romantic antics or payroll, a tech start up 20-something billionaire, that young activist who's now famous for starting a campaign to end violence against women. Really? We're going to be jealous of people doing good work in the world just because they're famous? But being jealous of a young change-maker is just as crazy as begrudging a starlet for her beauty, wealth, and worldwide acclaim.


Underneath feelings of jealousy, judgment, and "I could do it better than they could if I only I had x, y, z..." are actually misplaced projections of awe, bedazzlement, and idolization. Trapped in our ego mind we believe that somehow these are the "special" people of the world and buy into our own inferiority— so of course we're jealous, freaked out, and even angry at times about the "unfairness" of it all. These special people are getting all the opportunity and leaving us in the dust! We try to tear them down (typically in our mind), to feel better about ourselves, but like a black hole, the vacuum only grows in insatiable hunger and we feel none the better for any of our projections, fears, or judgments.


People are people are people are people.


And yes— there are unique drives for some, but who's to say that the skilled hunter in an indigenous village never documented by the modern world in a remote region of the amazon is any less driven, creative, or purposeful than our modern famous and wealthy? Fame does not equal purpose. Lack of ambition does not equal humility.  External beauty does not reflect inner wisdom.  Worldly riches and the affluence of spirit can go hand in hand, but often do not. Why is it that these feeling of "losing" can creep into the experience of all humans, despite circumstances, regardless of wealth, fame, beauty, or perceived worldly success? Why can we feel like we're losing if we get on the plane last and smugly superior if we get on first? Is there a way to embody privilege and purpose while fully sovereign within ourselves, embodying gratitude, and commitment to contribution without buying into a paradigm of competition and scarcity? Can we be happy with little and embody our inherent worthiness as a living, breathing, reflection of all that's good and pure in the universe without comparing ourselves to anyone else?

Can we dissolve the boundaries between what makes me, me, and you, you, so that I can feel your pain when you're struggling and celebrate your victories when you're thriving, all as if all these passages were my very own?


And more than metaphysical oneness, can we have a grounded, daily, material, relational, emotional experience of all our wins and loses connected to the whole of humanity? Can we redefine what winning means and hold ourselves to these standards, calling forth a deeper integrity that acknowledges when we have cut ourselves off from something greater and attempts to make us timid, inferior, and jealous or domineering, arrogant, and smug?

Can we recognize that the winners and the losers of the world are rolling along two sides of the exact same coin? And when we participate in this paradigm, acknowledging that we are upholding the false rat race of what success "is" and "isn't?" What should and shouldn't look like?


These are the questions that will walk us home to freedom without our own skin.


The questions that when contemplated daily will lend themselves to opening doorways of wholeness and internally generated satisfaction that will lead us to celebrating all the beauty and glory we witness in the world around us while feeling very much a part of it. Not a part of it because it belongs to us, but simply because we are actively engaged in life as creators, able to celebrate and derive joy from the art of life around us as it unfolds.


We can begin to feel whole enough within ourselves to feel worthy of being a part of life in each moment. Savoring the beauty within and around us, we can rest at the end of each day with ease and gratitude in our hearts.

And perhaps if we all learn how to die better deaths we will learn how to live a better life.  To let the truth of impermanence ground us into presence, into what really matters. The worldly affairs of life? We're not taking any of it with us when we leave. And when we are free enough to die without fear, we can live in a state of true abundance, able to celebrate each authentic victory we witness  around and feel each pain in our own heart as if it's our very own. Because it is.



AFFLUENCE


Affluence is our inherent birthright, yet it remains inaccessible as long as we regard the earth as a commodity here for us to exploit. The root of true affluence is born from witnessing and honoring the natural rhythms of the earth, then modeling and embodying these patterns into our life.


All wealth, power and influence created from a paradigm of commoditizing the earth or fellow living beings is the poorest expression of the human experience. Most of the "wealth" and "riches" of the world are pure illusion—a fear based power-grab designed to continue enslaving humanity at large utilizing mass hypnotism, seducing rich and poor alike, to buy into this fraudulent power structure.


Each person on this planet is responsible, at the most core level, for upholding or dismantling the old paradigm of illusory "wealth." All human beings have the capacity at the most core level to access affluence as demonstrated by nature.  Our natural capacity to access this inner affluence may be extremely challenged in particular environments, for instance where war, famine, drought, corrupt government, etc are affecting the day to day conditions of reality.  However, to shift into a grounded, true and accessible model of affluence for all living beings, we must each recognize that the 1% IS the 99% and the 99% IS the 1%.  Meaning, all human beings are sovereign in recognizing their choice to uphold or dismantle the false paradigm of wealth, influence, and power in their life.


We are sovereign in our choice, yet integral in bringing forth a global shift as a collective. We cannot do this alone. Consider for a moment that the richest of the rich are just as impoverished as the poorest of the poor if they are locked into the paradigm of illusory wealth. Rich or poor, we are all capable of starving, feeling cut off from our innate creative and truly affluent flow.  This state is only available after we release the paradigm of illusory wealth, which is rooted in the belief that there is not enough and others must suffer for us to prosper, or that we are somehow nobly defined by our own suffering. By the same token, we are all capable of trusting our own unique creative power and dismantling where we are enslaved in order to come into right relationship with the earth, where life affirming, vibrantly thriving, overflowing affluence is the natural state.


As Henry David Thoreau so aptly articulated, "Wealth is the ability to fully experience life." When we begin to fully experience life we discover that affluence is a birthright, not a privilege or a caste system. Without manipulation or disruptions, rivers naturally flow to the ocean, creating a plethora of life and abundance. The intrinsic code in all life is attuned for affluence: a state of thriving. This is not something that comes after we die in some distant realm of "heaven"; trees understand no concept of sin—they are righteous in their ability to access continual giving and receiving merging into a cycle of one flow—because this is their natural state. At the most core level, human beings also are coded to embody what is most natural, thriving, and life affirming: pure affluence.
We cannot ignore the millennia of history that has conditioned us to relate to life as anything but natural. However, we can begin returning to our connection with the flowing rhythms of nature. Unraveling and releasing the traumas of the modern world (and the history that generated it), from our nervous system can be daunting, infuriating, and confusing, until we learn to accept death, metaphorically and literally.

What is it that has us resist the very life giving properties of nature due to our own denial of death? The irony unfolds as masterful bamboozlement! We live within shells of existence driven by fear, scarcity, greed and isolation all to "survive."  Survival exists in hyper-vigilance, fighting for and defending our life in threatening situations.


Unfortunately, most of us are in an autopilot perpetual emergency mode, preventing us from fully exhaling, releasing into and thus accessing the affluence of being natural, connected, generous and generative.


The very fear of our own survival as a species is preventing us from accessing the boundlessly creative, courageous, affluent nature within us to usher forth a thriving future for humanity and life as a whole. We must drop into and allow the affluent flow of the present moment to surge through us in order to create a thriving future.

The power held up in unwarranted survival mechanisms is automatically undermined and ceases to influence our behaviors when we fully embody in our moment-to-moment experience, choosing instead to feel and cultivate the nourishment of deep presence. Accessing the nourishment of resonating presence attunes us with the natural economy of the earth, an extension and expression of the thriving ecosystems of life itself, where all conditions are balanced and in synchronized harmony as a whole.


It starts with a choice.  Choosing to turn our attention to our internal ecosystem—our body—and come into a more coherent relationship with where we are at in this moment. Bringing awareness into the sensations present and pulsing inside the skin while deepening the breath to allow more life to enter. Relaxing-in and softly opening on the exhale generates a more spacious experience of the moment. With bare feet upon the earth we ground into our roots, and the nervous system can begin to discharge accumulated tensions that otherwise impede the vital flow of life.


Practices of opening presence through the breath and making direct physical contact with the earth are simple, immediate ways of beginning to tune ourselves to access our inherent affluent state of being.  The ever flowing current of affluence is readily available to us when we open to presence, sending our roots down into the earth like a tree to draw it up and receive it as nourishment, which naturally ripens the inherent gifts within us, which we can then offer out into the world as ripe fruits of inspiration.  As we claim our birthright of affluence, we become a conduit where life is continually gifting and uplifting itself through us, as us, adding more beauty and value into the world.



BEAUTY, PEACE, SPACE
Space invites Beauty, breeds Peace
Poetic, silent, still...


Who are the ‘true artists'?


Is it those who feel everything
Or those who feel just the right amount
To DO SOMETHING
To MAKE SOMETHING
To make you FEEL SOMETHING


Watching the horizon
Not moving towards it
Not moving away
Allowing the light to do the moving
As the earth rolls;
Turning over on her fragrant belly
Scents of life and war


The mother that holds
The full spectrum of humanity
Like a frightened child in her lap
However she cannot comfort us by saying
"Shhh... there, there, that was just a nightmare..."
She can only hold us long enough to give us the resolve
To look back at the reality of what we've created:


The beauty and the love,
The famine and the rape,
The spectacles and the loneliness,
The joy and the suffering,
The beast of consumption munching up her flesh
Right towards our seat as we lay cradled in her lap.


"There, there... this is only your creation...
And as creators, you can destroy what no longer serves and create anew."


"But where do I turn when my inspiration is exhausted—
when I feel frightened and alone...?"


"Go nowhere—turn in—find Space.
Allow Beauty to inform you—and proceed with Peace in your heart...


In these most urgent times, do not fall into the trap of urgency.


Create Space, trust Beauty, follow Peace."



Blessed Longing by Goethe


"Tell no one else, only the wise
For the crowd will sneer at one
I wish to praise what is fully alive,
What longs to flame toward death.


When the calm enfolds the love-nights
That created you, where you have created
A feeling from the Unknown steals over you
While the tranquil candle burns.


You remain no longer caught
In the penumbral gloom
You are stirred and new, you desire
To soar to higher creativity.


No distance makes you ambivalent.
You come on wings, enchanted
In such hunger for light, you
Become the butterfly burnt to nothing.


So long as you have not lived this:
To die is to become new,
You remain a gloomy guest
On the dark earth." – Goethe


"This poem captures the wonderful spiritual force at the heart of longing.  It suggests that true vitality is hidden within longing.  When you give in to creative passion, it will bring you to the ultimate thresholds of transfiguration and renewal. This growth causes pain, but it is a sacred pain.  It would be much more tragic to have cautiously avoided these depths and remained marooned on the shiny surfaces of the banal."  ~ John O'Donohue


"                Only someone who is ready for everything, who excludes nothing, not even the most enigmatical, will live the relation to another as something alive and will herself draw exhaustively from her own existence." —Rainer Maria Rilke



Desert à la Mode

Knowing what I know now, I find it clear that my adventures with Mr. Maverick became greatly enhanced by: the desert.  Beyond enhancement, the experiences I enjoyed in the desert could even be symptoms of that particular, peculiar environment and my burning passion to explore uncharted territory.


Untapped possibilities abound in each of us and yet we often struggle to see ourselves clearly.


Sometimes it takes seeing ourselves in the reflection of another to better see a clear picture of our own being. And in order for us to see ourselves in another, it helps to have an environment that can represent: the blank canvas.  Such a quintessential container is the desert.  Such a landscape oozes raw potential—the epitome of the blank canvas, of open space—no better place exists for exploring the depths of one's inner self.


            The desert contains a vastness, a virgin canvas for me to paint my visions on.  The so-called wasteland doesn't get in the way, and what I captured there I now know was simply a reflection of my own perception being mirrored back to me.  The blank canvas effect is the ability to let personality dissolve, enabling you to be fully receptive while also being completely open for someone else to create their own vision.  When you are in the role of being a blank canvas for another, you are their sounding board, reflecting back the highest vibrations for them to receive and assimilate.  While I explored Death Valley with Mr. Maverick, the desert acted as this blank canvas for me.


            After my initiation into Death Valley I began feeling the desert in my bones.  When I think of spiritual nourishment I think of the desert. When I think of delicious, raw water I think of the desert.  When I imagine riding waves of ecstasy and singing with a choir of stars—I am transported to the desert.  That the desert provides me with nourishment, inspiration, spiritual sustenance and bliss may seem antithetical to what is typically thought of  this stark, harsh environment—yet even so, the desert provided me with these things and more.


The desert becomes a silent cat at night with a faint purr you can feel vibrating in your bones.  Electricity conducts easily in such a place and internal firestorms consume the core of many the arid adventurer.  Here, silence can be deafening, and a practitioner's heart can become the loudest drum. Time's beat usually deafens one to eternity's rhythm—but in the desert, time and infinity rub up against each other, lubricating the gears of creativity.  Dry death of the desolate tract, the desert offers the space to shed husky remnants of selves past, letting them dissolve and die off for good, creating space to metamorphose into a new self with fresh features.
            Bharati Mukherjee tells us that "the expatriate is the ultimate self-made artist, even the chooser of a language in which to operate..."  When I venture into the desert I feel a bit like an expatriate—and as such I choose the language through which that land speaks to me.  I am very much a part of the oceanic home I left to come to the desert, and I am alien and alone in the desiccated wasteland-- a self made artist with lingering awareness that insights and lessons are sure to come.
            The desert speaks to me, and on my first journey with Mr. Maverick the valley of death spoke through the water as I floated on my back; through the stars as I walked late at night; through the energy that I felt coursing through my body; through the silence of the cacti and wise stones—the desert spoke to me and I listened as best I could.  The desert told me to remember that each of us has the ability to be a blank canvas, each of us has an inner muse... and that each of us has the capability of unleashing greater creativity and power.                                                                                                                                                          In order to realize the highest levels of your creative flow, be willing to release fear and have utmost compassion for yourself.  Relax into your breath and see what sorts of jewels are whispered, released in this stream.  Let each perception you have of yourself bounce off of your inner blank canvas before you try and use it.  Even a truly positive perception or vision can be amplified by allowing it to pass through the void.
            Life comes from the void, the void is never filled, and yet from its emptiness form is born.  The blank canvas effect is similar to the void in that it is a necessary aspect of the creative process, and can only be useful to those willing to explore its many dimensions.   In order for creation to come into manifestation there are some necessary pieces that must be lined up, and one such piece is the blank canvas effect.  Birthing new ideas, new creations, and new selves takes some exploration of the blank canvas, this open void space where nothing is known.  The blank canvas teaches us: that anything is possible; there is nothing that can't be dreamt; and the world is an uncut boulder that you can carve through your creative adventures and play.
                        It's difficult to sustain life in the desert, which naturally does not make it seem very "homey." And yet the desert is a home to me-- to the darker aspects of me-- a final resting place for parts of me ready to die.  And in that aspect, the desert exists as an ultimate home—a place I go and never return from.  Are we born into our home or do we die into our home?  When I dance with the desert I die and am born again simultaneously, letting cycles of three wash over me in each breath: birth, life death...conception, gestation, birth.                                                                                                                     In the desert certain words resonate at a deep level beyond normal cognition, vibrating in my heart-- perhaps in my soul if I have such a thing.  One such word is the Spanish word for home or hearth: hogar.  When I taste this word I am gifted with cinnamon honey and Reiki for my stomach; my heart relaxes and I am a baby nursing on my mother's milk.  Hogar—the sound vibrates at a deep level of my being, activating parts of me that can't help but sing, feeling immense gratitude for being alive.  Hogar—this word makes me feel home, home in my own skin, home in the curves of this soul word.  The desert is one giant soul word, one massive hogar.  Not as comforting as mother's milk, and yet the desert is still a dependable home—it will always be waiting for me, a dry embrace opening to receive and bestow initiations ready to kick my ass.
            A dance unfolds between me and the desert, and a sacred agreement whispers every time such an exchange is enacted.  The desert agrees to display what is true to the moment and I agree to see whatever is revealed. Again as blank canvas the desert helps me step into the role of observer—showing me that what I already know about myself must be perceived from another angle for me to accept the highest vibrations, the nectar from the fruit.  I surrender to the moment and let go of my stale concepts.  I've found that the more I give myself permission to grow beyond my present perceptions, the more refined my sensitivity becomes to the moment and to the essential stream of energy that can be tapped.  The desert provides permission to be sensitive to the little details: the beauty of a single cactus flower is significant—and the world's turmoil is not going to be alleviated by jaded indifference. Likewise I stand to lose nothing by expanding beyond my perceptions, making love to the desert, exploring this present moment.

